Three Core Concepts -: 

Cake Shop -: 

Entities 
Shop - stores cakes on a shelf .
SHopkeeper - Behind the counter .
Customer - At the store entrance .

Activities  -:
Customer - order a cake .
Shopkeeper - Box a cake from the shelf .
           - Receipt to keep track .

Three Core concept -: 

Cake Shop Scenario           Redux                Purpose
Shop                         Store            Holds the state of your application .
Cake ordered                 Action           Describes what happened .
ShopKeeper                   Reducer          Ties the store and actions together . 

1. A store that holds the state of your application .
2. An action that describes what happened in the application .
3. A reducer which handles the action and decides how to updates the state .


Principles of Redux
Predictability of Redux is determined by three most important principles as given below −

Single Source of Truth
The state of your whole application is stored in an object tree within a single store. As whole application state is stored in a single tree, it makes debugging easy, and development faster.

State is Read-only
The only way to change the state is to emit an action, an object describing what happened. This means nobody can directly change the state of your application.

Changes are made with pure functions
To specify how the state tree is transformed by actions, you write pure reducers. A reducer is a central place where state modification takes place. Reducer is a function which takes state and action as arguments, and returns a newly updated state.

Redux has a single store which holds the application state. If you want to split your code on the basis of data handling logic, you should start splitting your reducers instead of stores in Redux.

An action is dispatched when a user interacts with the application.

The root reducer function is called with the current state and the dispatched action. The root reducer may divide the task among smaller reducer functions, which ultimately returns a new state.

The store notifies the view by executing their callback functions.

The view can retrieve updated state and re-render again.

A pure function is a function  which -:

1. Given the same input , always returns the same output .

2. produces no side effects .
3 . what are side effects -: 

i) Making HTTP requests .
ii) Mutating data .
iii) printing to screen and console .
iv) DOM Manupulation / Query .
v) Math.random() .

a = 20;

const result = function SomeOutput(b){
    return a + b ;
}

console.log(SomeOutput(2));

This example is not a pure function because it uses global variables to produce result which makes it unpredictable behavior  . Pure function always expect expected output like 2*2 = 4 .